the easiest way to learn digital
marketing is just go and do it create
your own website go start a WordPress
website you can do it for free at
wordpress.com or you can buy your own
domain name and you know pop up like a
site on dreamhost and crank something
out and just try to learn and Market
your own site go read sites whether it's
you know mine at neilpatel.com or
someone else's that's fine and just go
and try to Market your own site and get
traffic the best way of learning is just
doing it yourself
foreign
our conversation with one of the most
important topics the future and more
specifically the future of digital
marketing this is what new Patel had to
say about digital marketing post
pandemic with the pandemic there's been
a big boom on anything internet based
it's convenient you can get it delivered
to you don't have to worry about covid
and what you'll end up seeing in the
future as well is because people are
starting to order off of Amazon people
who have never ordered before like my
parents or people who are older ordered
online sites now right like they're
ordering from e-commerce sites they're
getting used to it they're seeing how it
actually can be cheaper and more
convenient than even going to the store
so post covid what you're going to see
is a lot of people continuing with
online Commerce which is going to
increase the demand for digital
marketing but it's also going to
increase how competitive digital
marketing is as well which means you're
going to have to spend more money spend
more time more resources is to get the
same results that you were getting
before on the topic of digital marketing
Trends we also want
s content saturation that answer might
surprise you when we look at content
marketing the stats are pretty basic in
which there's over a billion blogs and
there's roughly 7 billion people in this
world so you have roughly one blog for
every seven people that's a lot of
content and then you have Tick Tock you
have LinkedIn you have Clubhouse you
have Instagram the number of social
platforms out there has continually been
increasing people are now repurposing
content continuing trying to build an
audience there's so much noise in the
marketplace that it's harder to stand
out no matter what you're doing you can
jump over Lamborghinis and if you're
jumping over Lamborghinis and it used to
go parallel on YouTube everyone's
jumping over Lamborghinis right now and
it doesn't go that Viral anymore the
point I'm trying to make is there is a
lot of content and there'll continually
be more content and even though people
are producing content Mass scale I
personally don't see it actually
decreasing over time what I do see is
people struggling to stand out so you're
going to see more noise and even if more
content is being produced you're not
going to see as much content stand out
or you're not going to notice much just
like you know how you have Banner
blindness you see bad ads so often you
tend to ignore them you'll start doing
similar things with content and there's
a lot of tools that are coming up which
AI is helping you create content
actually becoming easier to create it
there's tools like canva that help you
create the visual images even quicker so
it's just going to cause more people to
create even more content but again I
believe people are going to have
quote-unquote content blindness similar
to Banner blindness in which they're
going to ignore most the content um
because we began the topic of content
marketing I have to ask what would his
predictions for some content marketing
Trends be there's two big ones so one is
lives like this think about doing a
podcast interview but on Facebook and
you can use the streaming platforms to
go live on Facebook LinkedIn YouTube
Instagram and you can do an interview
everywhere at the same time which can
help you grow quicker the second content
format that I'm experimenting with is
reels okay so everyone has a different
version of real shorts there's Tick Tock
right yeah it's gonna very platform but
the content is pretty much the same if
you create these quote-unquote reels
what ends up happening is the people who
see that content can be more than just
your followers so it's another easy way
to grow actually Pinterest recently
launched their story pins not sure if
you have heard about them but they are
basically the same kind of format such
as Rios but they enable you to create
story pins which are up to 20 pages long
so you can combine your views on their
super super powerful for organic reach
as well so anyone looking to repurpose
their tick tocks their reels their
YouTube Source Pinterest story plans are
definitely a viable option as well and
especially not two people talk about
Pinterest Pinterest is one of the best
sites if you're an e-commerce and you're
trying to generate sales but because
content marketing is only one portion of
digital marketing I also wanted to ask
new how can a beginner register
marketing learn as effectively here is
his best advice the easiest way to learn
digital marketing is just go and do it
create your own website go start a
WordPress website you can do it for free
at wordpress.com or you can buy your own
main name and you know pop up like a
site on dreamhost and crank something
out and just try to learn and Market
your own site go read sites whether it's
you know mine at neilpatel.com or
someone else's that's fine and just go
and try to Market your own side and get
traffic the best way of learning is just
doing it yourself it's just not you can
read all you want but if you don't
actually Implement it's not going to
take you that far after you've gained
knowledge in digital marketing as a
whole you'd also want to gain knowledge
in one specific industry here's how to
pick your Niche according to new Patel
figure out what you have more natural
skills and start with that and just
focus people used to tell you that you
can do everything you can't do
everything I can't be a doctor I'm not
good at it I don't have the stomach to
see the insides of someone or their
blood like that's just not me focus on
what your natural better at because
that's what you'll enjoy and just double
down and be the best person at that one
thing the topic of just the marketing
guy I also wanted to learn what are some
of the best resources that new Patel
utilizes himself here is his list I read
a lot of blogs more than books because
they tend to be more up to date and then
I do a ton of experimentation straight
to the point answer do you have any box
suggestions for our audience I keep up
with search engine land search engine
Journal uh Moz backlinko but yeah those
are the main blogs that I'm keeping up
to date with and then the other thing I
do is track all your competitors and see
what they're doing and see what kind of
content they're pushing out and it'll
give you ideas the other thing to do is
continue to look out for your
competitions uh podcast interviews a lot
of times they spill their beans on how
they're growing or what tactics they're
doing and listen to that because they'll
give you ideas as well after we have
discussed
as well as the future registered
marketing I wanted to learn what is new
but there was social media strategy
here's what he shared with us I have
this formula that's been working really
well in which forty percent of the time
I create beginner content beginner
content being like how to tie a tie how
to install a toilet stuff like that I
know that's extremely beginner but
that's the stuff that people are
searching for but it doesn't create tons
of social shares and it doesn't create
tons of backlinks ten percent of the
time I'm creating Advanced content
content with stats data that shows me as
an expert stuff that'll get a lot of
social shares backlinks but doesn't
generate that many links then 20 of the
time I'm focusing on rewriting older
articles I go into Google search console
I see the older articles and I compare
it from I take my last 30 days compared
to the previous 30 days of the last year
so I'm comparing my last 30 days to the
last year during the same time period in
essence and I'm seeing which content
generally more traffic back then than it
does now and I look at that content
pieces and I see my competitors ones and
I rewrite mine and try to make it way
better than theirs so that way I can get
more traffic to my older articles and I
do that 20 time and 30 time which gets
me to 100 I go and I promote my content
hitting up people on social media asking
them to share my content offering to
share their content emailing people I
link out to asking them to share my
content but like processes like that
just really help get more traffic and
because I know that a lot of the
audience of new Patel as well as my
audience is from the younger generation
I had to ask him what would the best
advice for his younger self be I'll tell
him to focus when I was 20 years old at
80d I tried doing way too many things I
should have just focused
and if I stuck with marketing and I
stuck with just practicing and helping
them with their marketing we're trying
to do too many companies I would have
had one company that was much bigger
much larger doing much better but I
didn't do that I had 80d I would you
know people would tell me about a really
cool idea like hey we should end up
creating Invisalign through 3D printers
or we should do some random stuff and be
like ah cool let me give you some money
or let me try that I should have just
focused my energy and my efforts and
there is actually a great quote from my
native language it says from two chairs
on the ground basically if you try too
much task if you try too many things
your focus is going to be diverted and
you're all going to be ending up with
nothing this is something which a lot of
people especially in the social media
marketing World should not take for
granted yes you can repurpose content
yes you can be on multiple places at the
same time and grow simultaneously but
unless you have those processes set in
place you're going to struggle
social media platforms I don't also mean
a chance to ask him what would his best
advice to social media marketing experts
be this is what new Patel had to say
don't have to go viral you know the
other day I was talking to a friend and
he's like how many video views you have
and I'm like I have 37 minute million
video views and I did it without going
viral and I was like it's just
consistency you keep creating content
you keep pushing it out there on the
social platforms you'll keep doing well
and people are gunning for that let me
just create that one hit wonder and get
lucky and I'm like that's not in your
control but what is in your control is
consistency hard work and just doing it
for a very very long time even if you go
viral there is another point of view to
the the whole scenario the going Barrow
is actually in my opinion A Double H
sport because every single time that you
go viral then you have an expectation
that your next post should go viral as
well or you start comparing your own
posts which didn't go viral and start
thinking to yourself oh damn that post
should have gone more views and just as
you said in a lot of times there's the
marketing social media marketing there
are a lot of factors that we can
attribute to there are a lot of factors
that we can predict but a post going
viral is often unpredictable focusing on
what you can control focusing in on what
is in your immediate area of control is
the best strategy being consistent is
definitely one of these elements and yes
as it might sound this is something
which new has practiced this is
something called 37 million video
viewers sometimes sure a lot more link
clicks on his book and there is a reason
for that as inspiring as new but they
can be we still have to remember that he
is just like us a normal human being and
if he can become as knowledgeable and
helpful to millions of people you can as
well